Changing priorities is inefficient

To do a good job as dev manager, I need to have a fairly good understanding of 
what it is we are trying to achieve, what is possible, what are the strengths 
and weaknesses of the individuals on this project.

If we go from user interface to Oracle work, then it takes a while for me to 
properly switch from managing one to the other.

An example is that if we are doing GUI work then I might be researching about 
best practices and tools and resources for this.  If we switch to Oracle work 
then I need to switch over to that.

Testers
-------

What is their role
What do they do
http://www.joelonsoftware.com/items/2010/01/26.html

" Sure, automated test suites are a time saver, but testing software covers so 
much more than that. If you put too much emphasis on those scripts, you won’t 
notice misaligned text, hostile user interfaces, bad color choices, and 
inconsistency. Worse, you’ll have a culture of testers frantically working to 
get their own code working, which crowds out what you need them to do: 
evaluate someone else’s code."

"Since testing can be taught on the job, but general intelligence can’t, you 
really need very smart people as testers, even if they don’t have relevant 
experience. Many of the best testers I’ve worked with didn’t even realize they 
wanted to be testers until someone offered them the job."

"If you:

    Love software and computers
        Want to work on a software team, and
            Don’t particularly like programming
            you should consider being a tester. "
http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000067.html

"The QA department should be independent and powerful, it must not report to 
the development team, in fact, the head of QA should have veto power over 
releasing any software that doesn't meet muster."

http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2006/09/making-developers-cry-since-1995.html
http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/Ladder.html
Do we need em?
How much do they earn
What would an interview look like

https://www.deming.org/theman/theories/profoundknowledge
“Why did something go wrong?” “Why are results so poor?” “How can we repeat 
this success?” The job of management is to not only ask these and other 
important performance-related questions, but also to find the right answers 
and take the right course of action. Dr. Deming provided the means for 
management to do just that through knowledge of variation. 

Why does this project exist?  What is the problem we are trying to solve?

"Right thinking engineers fail to achieve consensus for two reasons:

* The issue is small and boils down to personal style
* There is insufficient data on either side of an issue

The value of information and the success of business intelligence should be 
measured in terms of useful
outcomes.

i) Did your understanding increase (i.e., did you figure out what the 
information means)?
ii) If so, did that understanding relate to things that matter (i.e., did you 
determine how that understanding could make a
positive difference)?
iii) If so, did that understanding produce better decisions and actions (i.e., 
did you choose
and then take a course of action that produced the desired effect)?

Only when you can answer “Yes” to each of
these questions was the information and the technology that helped you understand it worthwhile.

Most BI companies want you to believe that your problems can be solved by 
collecting and storing more data.
They don’t encourage you to first understand and then use the data that you already have. Why? Because
they only know how to build and sell you products for collecting and storing data and for accessing data at high
speeds. They don’t know how to help you make sense and use of data in meaningful ways. They want you to
desire and buy what they sell, not to recognize and demand what you actually need.

Copyright © 2012 Stephen Few, Perceptual Edge
Page 6 of 8
Business intelligence has always put the cart before the horse—the technology (tools) before the users (human
beings) and their goals. It is now piling data into the cart to the point of immovability.
